
Morse Code Send & Receive Practice for Arduino Mega v4b Helpfile 
January 17, 2017 (c) Barry Block b5@xs4all.nl

update - now with a modified WB7FHC's Morse Code Decoder v.1.1, 
keyer, t-hunt beacon, and send from keyboard.

This sketch is for the Arduino Mega. 
It expects the Mega to be connected to a usb port on a computer with a good terminal program.
I use ExtraPutty, see below. To modify files on the SDcard I use 'Tera Term'.

More setup help is at the beginning of the sketch file.
UK/US characters only are employed in the code array.

Set sketch & terminal program to the same baud and protocol.
I recommend: 115200/8-N-1 no handshake.

Choice of tone/noTone or external oscillator circuit triggered by pin13.
Plug speaker to Digital pin8 and Gnd.
Use a resistor or pot in series if you want to. 120 ohms is good. I don't use one.
Find a pitch that is louder than others and set loud = the value. P7 & P8 will help to do this.
Find a pitch that is softer than others and set soft = the value - see example in sketch.

SD card support:

Sd card pinout for Mega:
gnd
vcc
miso     50
mosi     51
sck      52
cs       53 <---------53 must be an output pin

pin 53 must be left as an output pin.
const int chipSelect = 53;

Set the variable SDready to true or false depending on whether you have an SD card installed.
You do not see the SD card options (or error messages) if SDready is false.

The SD card can be used to randomly choose a textfile to send as Morse.
There are, at present, two groups of files.
1) joke text files.
NOTE - number of textfiles in SD root folder must be named 0 1 2...98...999. No extension.
Presently, no more than 1000 but you can change that.
2) Folder ARRL has 102 text files taken from the ARRL web site.
The files in this folder should also just be numbers but have extension .txt

Paddle/straight key:
The paddle jack is a 3.5mm stereo jack to connect paddle or straight key.
Outer sleeve jack pin is ground.
Dit & Dah go to L & R on the plug, so to speak. They connect to D2 & D3.
Set the pins for INPUT_PULLUP. At least for my paddle.
You might try just INPUT if there is a problem.
If your paddle is weird you may have to test the opposite states. !Digital.read or Digital.read.

When connected to a terminal the computer tries to understand the code you send.
This is very useful to improve your timing!
You can also run this routine without a computer/terminal/monitor. To hear the sound only.
Just to practice sending lying down...in a relaxed way.
You do need a battery supply for this. The software knows when you do this.

For straight key just use the dit pin. The dah pin will be ignored.

To start from battery supply, hold the key down after power is applied.
Paddle, stright key, or beacon will be selected by how long you hold the key down. 
< 1/2 sec: paddle, < 1 sec: straight key, > 1.5: beacon.

Battery power:
Install a 100k resistor (for instance) from analog pin A5 to Vin.
If you do this the software knows when it is running on battery power.

Audio decoder:
An audio decoder is now implemented! 

https://b1954a81d64a6708574fc19ceb638c128f3998f4.googledrive.com/host/0B8Ql_9-ygoisczg4STFicFZPWEE/WB7FHC-Decoder-Sketch.html

(WB7FHC's Morse Code Decoder v.1.1) Budd wrote it for a 20x4 display. 
I removed all the special display code and added full manual control of wpm.
A mic & preamp are required. 
You can build a simple preamp and use an electret mic or a module which is simpler and cheaper.
I highly recommend this very small, cheap, sensitive module:

http://www.banggood.com/CJMCU-9812-MAX9812L-Electret-Microphone-Amplifier-Development-Board-Sensor-Module-For-Arduino-p-1103128.html

It works great but requires an added resistor. 100k to 470k across the mic module pins vcc & output.
*Note* You must power this from 3.3 volts! Not 5 volts! The Arduino supports this.

The decoder works well on clean signals. By default it tries to find the proper speed. 
It often gets confused so I added a manual override.

For fun I've added two new Morse characters for the decoder only. 
A carrage return/line feed: (cr) -.-..-.  I find it easier to send 'kf'.
A clear screen (lr) .-...-.  I think 'asn'.

Run options:

s(value) adjust letter space time (1-255).
Pause between sent characters. This is quite useful.
It is good to set wpm fast and put more space between characters when practicing.
Try not to listen to very slow code. It is much better to send at 20wpm and space set at 10 or
something than to send at 5 wpm with space set to 3.
TRAIN TO HEAR THE CHARACTERS not count dits & dahs.

o(value) wordspace (1-30)
When a text file is being sent you can adjust the time between words.

w(value) adjust wpm (Example: w20).
Speed at which the code is sent.

e toggle screen echo
When a text file is being sent you can choose to have the characters show on screen
as they are sent or after the file has completed.

p(value) set pitch, p off, p7 -10Hz, p8 +10Hz, p9 soft (preset) p99 loud (preset)
The tone frequency you hear. Play with these and all should be clear.

r(value) adjust number of characters to send (row length: 1-55).
When you press the Spacebar, characters are sent in code. This option selects how many.

t Enter characters to send (55 max) or just Enter to clear a 'TestString', called tString.
You can define which characters are sent for practice by establishing a testString.
There are also presets: letters, numbers, punctuation, and letters/numbers only.
You can save/load/delete the testString to/from the SD card.
t1 (Load) t2 (Save) t3 (Delete) tString.

t4 tRepeat toggle. (SD card not required) works with testRow set to 1.
You have the option of repeatedly sending the same test char until you press the Spacebar.
This is useful to learn a new character. The testString can be any set of characters.

t5 number of seconds between repeats. Works with t4, t6, and t7. Set default at top of sketch.
t6 (toggle) auto repeat tString run without pressing Spacebar

t7 Type in answers option for improving memory on short runs. If selected t4 & t6 are set off.
Computer shows correct answer string.
t8 Type in answers but computer will not show answers until you get it right. It repeats.

f1 randomly selects a joke file and sends it.
f2 randomly selects an ARRL file and sends it.
SD card must be installed for this.
You have the choice of seeing the text as it is sent (echo) or after the file completes.

x SD card menu (You do not see the SD card menu or options if SDready is false.)
At this time there are three sub menus.
Joke & ARRL files and this help file.
So first you select which group to work with.
You can (l) list the textfiles, (r number) read a selected file,
(s number) send a selected file, (w) write a file to the SDcard (d) delete a file.
From here you can only write the help file to SD card. You may care to edit it.
I do that all the time :-)

You can add a joke or ARRL file to the SDcard, or replace the helpfile.
To write (save) a textfile (w number), without removing the SD card:
For sending a file to the Arduino I suggest the free terminal program 'Tera Term':
https://ttssh2.osdn.jp/
Important: Go to setup-serial port and set transmit char delay to 1 ms.
I just use this program to send a file to the Arduino. The write file function.
In Tera Term you can drag a file to the screen or paste with right click or 'send file' 
from file menu.
You can just press ESC when you are sure there is no more data to process.
or:
Make the file in a text editor & optionally, make the last character char[129] or char[4].
---

For the terminal monitor (everything but 'write file') I like PuTTY Extra. 
It supports VT100 and text looks good and the scrollback works well and can be turned off.
It too is free but does not send text files well enough.
http://www.extraputty.com/download.php
(you could also use a computer to put files on the SDcard. How 'bout that :-)

y paddle 
y (number) straight key
Paddle will try to display the chacters & words you send. This WILL improve your timing.
Straight key will show dits & dahs & a space between characters if your timing is close enough.
The keyer can be reached from here too, to send a message. There is a menu to set some options.

z Computer sends a testString character, you press the corresponding key.
Instead of pen & paper you work at your speed to respond to each character sent.

z(number) for learning the code. z1(letters) z2(numbers) z3(punctuation) z>3(# of repeats)
This is an effective way to learn the code!
Starts with 2 characters. Sent a number of times (selectable), then adds a third character, etc.
If an SD card is installed, a bookmark option to save where you are & continue later is featured.
When you ESC the routine you are asked if you want to Save the bookmark (y/n) or Delete it (d).
Select either y, n, or d. If unsure, select y :-)
n is default so if you press another key instead of y or d, no is selected.

n(row) send numbers
Sets testString to numbers.
If you follow with a number it will set how many characters are sent each run of the test.

l(row) send letters
Similar to the above. Sets testString to letters. 
Note: 'testString' is now called 'tString' in the program.

u(row) send punctuation characters or u77 (or >) to not send them.
Similar to the above. Sets testString to punctuation characters.

c clear screen
or to toggle this option: c(1-8)
If your terminal program supports ANSI control characters, set ANSI = true at top of sketch.
c9 will toggle clearing the scrollback buffer or not when you clear the screen.

d show Morse code chart. Shows all characters and their code.

b audio decoder & straight key sender
A mic or key inputs code. Decoding takes place & the result is displayed on the terminal.
There is a sub-menu showing a few options. Mostly to control wpm and clear screen. 
However from here you can also access the main menu (\) or keyboard send option. (s)
This allows you to send and receive Morse without even knowing the code.
This can also be used with a straight key for sending practice and will display the 
characters/words you (actually) send.
You can send and receive code without knowing the code. Sacrilege!

a send by keyboard. Press a key and the code for it is sent.

v toggle letter display in upper/lower case

k keyer relay toggle. k(1-8) keyer message routine. 
k9 t-hunt beacon. Can also be reached through keyer.

m or i displays main option menu

j pseudo call sign generator. Sends 2 letters, 1 number, 3 letters. 
Waits and sends another till you press ESC.

h or ? displays this text file if an SD card is found & the file is in folder:
'/utility/' & named 'MRP_Help.txt'

/utility/MRP_Help.txt

Status line explained:
e echo, k keyer relay, Sclr scrollback buffer, case letter case, t4 tRepeat toggle, 
t5 char repeat pause, t6 teststring auto repeat, t7 typein answers, t8 answers check
s letter space time, wS word space time, w wpm, h hear wpm, p pitch, r row,
Zx repeat current Z string x times, Jfiles total, Afiles total, Kfiles, total 
tRow tString row, tStr tString

Å