Put the Mega in the box. Use a pencil to see where to use a hack saw to cut the case for the two protruding connectors.
At the other end of the box, find the center of the bottom piece of box (with the 4 holes) both horizontally & vertically.
Mark and drill a small hole to be enlarged as required for the paddle/straight key jack.
Update - If you want to use the keyer option mount two jacks so perhaps not mount one in the center.

You may have to grind the area inside the box so that the jack protrudes far enough to put the nut securely enough to 
tighten it and hold the jack in place. I used a little Dremel grinding wheel stone in a drill press.

Mount the SDcard module on the top of the box but not in the center. 
Work out how to mount it and the relay board and still be able to insert/remove the tf card.
Update - I have found a much smaller reed relay and this is no longer a problem. See parts list and below.
For the SDcard module I tapped the front two holes for 3mm screws but you can use 2mm screws & nuts. 
Mount allowing for clearance to insert the tf card easily and away from jumpers on the Mega so there is no problem 
closing the box.

I used a free standing piezo buzzer but the one in the part list should be screwed down or hot glued or use 2 sided tape.
I made no hole in the case for the sounder. I expect the tone is more pleasing this way. You may want a hole.
Update - I've made a hole for more volume. Hot glued the sounder over the hole.
I cut one largish rubber foot into 4 pieces for the bottom of the box. It does not look great but works well.
Two screw heads are protruding down there to fix the Mega to the box. One in front. One in back on the same side. 3mm. 
Maybe putting the nuts on the bottom would allow enough room to use 4 screws. No need to.
So I used feet. I was also concerned the box might vibrate sometimes and that sound would be annoying.

I highly suggest you use the jumper kit to interconnect. 

You can cut one end of the jumpers and solder to the stereo jacks.

I found two self tapping screws to hold the box together.
A hardware store may have just the screws & nuts you need instead of ordering the assortment I recommended.
You may also find cheaper rubber feet that are perfect.
Any resistor between 10k & 470k can be used for the battery option so you don't need that kit. 
I did nothing fancy about installing the resistor.
A one watt may (would) fit the female Mega connectors better than a 1/4 watt. Less flimsy. No problem yet.

Update! - now with a modified WB7FHC's Morse Code Decoder v.1.1
A mic and preamp required for this feature. You might also want to include a NE567 tone decoder. I have not.
I used a mudule for this. Simple, perfect and cheap! You do have to add a resistor across + and out.
100k to 470k 1/8 watt will do. Easy to do on the little board. Mount the mic on the opposite side of the board 
that you mount the 3 connectors. You want them facing in opposite directions.
http://www.banggood.com/CJMCU-9812-MAX9812L-Electret-Microphone-Amplifier-Development-Board-Sensor-Module-For-Arduino-p-1103128.html?rmmds=myorder

There is enough room to throw it all together though. 
One change I'd suggest is to use a 5v reed relay instead of the relay board. Banggood does not sell this. 
Just ordered 5V Relay SIP-1A05 4PIN for 0.61 Euros. It's tiny! 
Does not include a snubber diode. You need to add a 1n48 or other diode across the coil connections. 
Connect the 'bar' end of the diode to the + side of the coil. (backwords) This must be done to protect the Mega.
Power this module from the 3.3v pin on the Mega. Not the 5v!
Connect to the relay with small very flexable wires! Then cover with hot glue. The connectors will break off easily!
I bought the relay by ordering a bag of 5. Glad I did.

Morse Mega pin data:

A0 mic board analog in
A5 & Vin 100k resistor

D2 dit paddle in or stright key in
D3 dah paddle in
D8 & gnd speaker
D9 keyer relay board control input
D13 signal pin out - use to control an external oscillator, if desired

Sd card pinout for Mega:
gnd
vcc
miso     50
mosi     51
sck      52
cs       53 <---------53 must be an output pin

The ICSP headers are a source for v5 & gnd.
paddle, relay, speaker, mic, SDcard, need a gnd connection. 
You could make 3 'y' cables to do this, for instance.
relay, mic, SDcard need 5v. A 1 to 3 cable will provide for this.